<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
<!-- Code generated by terraform-docs. DO NOT EDIT. -->
# nat-rules submodule

Creates `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworkGateways/natRules` resources on a virtual network gateway.

See <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.network/virtualnetworkgateways/natrules>.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
## Requirements

The following requirements are needed by this module:

- <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) (>= 1.9, < 2.0)

- <a name="requirement_azapi"></a> [azapi](#requirement\_azapi) (~> 2.9)

## Resources

The following resources are used by this module:

- [azapi_resource.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
## Required Inputs

The following input variables are required:

### <a name="input_nat_rules"></a> [nat\_rules](#input\_nat\_rules)

Description: A map of NAT rules to create on the virtual network gateway. Map keys are arbitrary.

- `name` - (Optional) The NAT rule name. Defaults to the map key.
- `type` - (Optional) The NAT rule type. Possible values are `Static` and `Dynamic`. Defaults to `Static`.
- `mode` - (Required) The NAT direction. Possible values are `EgressSnat` and `IngressSnat`.
- `ip_configuration_id` - (Optional) The ID of the gateway IP configuration this rule applies to.
- `internal_mappings` - List of internal address mappings.
  - `address_space` - The internal address space in CIDR notation.
  - `port_range` - (Optional) The port range (e.g. `100-200`).
- `external_mappings` - List of external address mappings.
  - `address_space` - The external address space in CIDR notation.
  - `port_range` - (Optional) The port range (e.g. `100-200`).

Type:

```hcl
map(object({
    name                = optional(string, null)
    type                = optional(string, "Static")
    mode                = string
    ip_configuration_id = optional(string, null)
    internal_mappings = list(object({
      address_space = string
      port_range    = optional(string, null)
    }))
    external_mappings = list(object({
      address_space = string
      port_range    = optional(string, null)
    }))
  }))
```

### <a name="input_virtual_network_gateway_resource_id"></a> [virtual\_network\_gateway\_resource\_id](#input\_virtual\_network\_gateway\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the parent virtual network gateway.

Type: `string`

## Optional Inputs

No optional inputs.

## Outputs

The following outputs are exported:

### <a name="output_nat_rules"></a> [nat\_rules](#output\_nat\_rules)

Description: Map of created NAT rules keyed by the input map key.

### <a name="output_resource_id"></a> [resource\_id](#output\_resource\_id)

Description: Map of created NAT rule resource IDs keyed by the input map key.

## Modules

No modules.

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD041 -->
## Data Collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft’s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704>. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->