<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
<!-- Code generated by terraform-docs. DO NOT EDIT. -->
# expressroute-connection submodule

Creates a `Microsoft.Network/expressRouteCircuits/peerings/connections` resource (Global Reach circuit-to-circuit connection) on the local ExpressRoute circuit's private peering.

The corresponding `Microsoft.Network/expressRouteCircuits/peerings/peerConnections` resource on the peer circuit is **read-only** in Azure and cannot be created directly. Set `lookup_peer_connection = true` and supply `peer_connection_resource_id` to read it via a data source.

References:

- <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.network/expressroutecircuits/peerings/connections>
- <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.network/expressroutecircuits/peerings/peerconnections>

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
## Requirements

The following requirements are needed by this module:

- <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) (>= 1.9, < 2.0)

- <a name="requirement_azapi"></a> [azapi](#requirement\_azapi) (~> 2.9)

## Resources

The following resources are used by this module:

- [azapi_resource.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_client_config.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
## Required Inputs

The following input variables are required:

### <a name="input_express_route_circuit_resource_id"></a> [express\_route\_circuit\_resource\_id](#input\_express\_route\_circuit\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the ExpressRoute circuit to connect the gateway to.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_location"></a> [location](#input\_location)

Description: Azure region for the connection resource.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name)

Description: The name of the ExpressRoute connection (`Microsoft.Network/connections`).

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_resource_group_name"></a> [resource\_group\_name](#input\_resource\_group\_name)

Description: The resource group where the connection resource is deployed. Typically the same resource group as the virtual network gateway.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_gateway_resource_id"></a> [virtual\_network\_gateway\_resource\_id](#input\_virtual\_network\_gateway\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the ExpressRoute virtual network gateway (gatewayType = `ExpressRoute`).

Type: `string`

## Optional Inputs

The following input variables are optional (have default values):

### <a name="input_authorization_key"></a> [authorization\_key](#input\_authorization\_key)

Description: The authorization key used to authorize the connection. Required when connecting to a circuit in a different subscription/tenant.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_authorization_key_version"></a> [authorization\_key\_version](#input\_authorization\_key\_version)

Description: Increment to force re-deployment of `authorization_key`.

Type: `string`

Default: `"1"`

### <a name="input_enable_private_link_fast_path"></a> [enable\_private\_link\_fast\_path](#input\_enable\_private\_link\_fast\_path)

Description: Whether to enable Private Link FastPath on the connection. Requires `express_route_gateway_bypass` to be `true` and a supported gateway SKU.

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_express_route_gateway_bypass"></a> [express\_route\_gateway\_bypass](#input\_express\_route\_gateway\_bypass)

Description: Whether to bypass the ExpressRoute gateway for data forwarding (FastPath).

Type: `bool`

Default: `false`

### <a name="input_routing_weight"></a> [routing\_weight](#input\_routing\_weight)

Description: The routing weight for the connection.

Type: `number`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags)

Description: (Optional) Tags applied to the connection resource.

Type: `map(string)`

Default: `null`

## Outputs

The following outputs are exported:

### <a name="output_name"></a> [name](#output\_name)

Description: The name of the ExpressRoute connection.

### <a name="output_resource"></a> [resource](#output\_resource)

Description: The full AzAPI resource object for the ExpressRoute connection.

### <a name="output_resource_id"></a> [resource\_id](#output\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the ExpressRoute connection.

## Modules

No modules.

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD041 -->
## Data Collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft’s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704>. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->