<!-- BEGIN_TF_DOCS -->
<!-- Code generated by terraform-docs. DO NOT EDIT. -->
# maintenance-configuration submodule

Creates a `Microsoft.Maintenance/maintenanceConfigurations` resource and the matching `Microsoft.Maintenance/configurationAssignments` child under a virtual network gateway, enabling customer-controlled maintenance windows for VPN / ExpressRoute gateways.

The configuration uses `maintenanceScope = "Resource"` with the `NetworkGatewayMaintenance` sub-scope, which is the public scope Azure exposes for gateway maintenance control.

Notes:

- Azure enforces a minimum window `duration` of 300 minutes (5 hours) for the `NetworkGatewayMaintenance` sub-scope.
- `start_date_time` only anchors the recurrence; the cadence is driven by `recur_every` (e.g. `"1Day"`, `"Week Saturday"`).

References:

- <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.maintenance/maintenanceconfigurations>
- <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/templates/microsoft.maintenance/configurationassignments>

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
## Requirements

The following requirements are needed by this module:

- <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) (>= 1.9, < 2.0)

- <a name="requirement_azapi"></a> [azapi](#requirement\_azapi) (~> 2.9)

## Resources

The following resources are used by this module:

- [azapi_resource.assignment](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_resource.this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/resources/resource) (resource)
- [azapi_client_config.current](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/Azure/azapi/latest/docs/data-sources/client_config) (data source)

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
## Required Inputs

The following input variables are required:

### <a name="input_location"></a> [location](#input\_location)

Description: Azure region for the maintenance configuration.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_maintenance_window"></a> [maintenance\_window](#input\_maintenance\_window)

Description: The maintenance window definition.

- `start_date_time` - The window anchor in `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM` format. Only anchors the recurrence; the actual cadence is driven by `recur_every`.
- `duration` - Window length as `HH:MM`. Azure currently enforces a minimum of 5 hours (`"05:00"`) for the `NetworkGatewayMaintenance` sub-scope.
- `time_zone` - (Optional) IANA / Windows time zone identifier. Defaults to `UTC`.
- `recur_every` - Recurrence expression accepted by the Maintenance API, e.g. `"1Day"`, `"Week Saturday"`, `"Week Saturday,Sunday"`.

Type:

```hcl
object({
    start_date_time = string
    duration        = string
    time_zone       = optional(string, "UTC")
    recur_every     = string
  })
```

### <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name)

Description: The name of the maintenance configuration (`Microsoft.Maintenance/maintenanceConfigurations`).

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_resource_group_name"></a> [resource\_group\_name](#input\_resource\_group\_name)

Description: The resource group where the maintenance configuration is deployed.

Type: `string`

### <a name="input_virtual_network_gateway_resource_id"></a> [virtual\_network\_gateway\_resource\_id](#input\_virtual\_network\_gateway\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the virtual network gateway to assign this maintenance configuration to.

Type: `string`

## Optional Inputs

The following input variables are optional (have default values):

### <a name="input_assignment_name"></a> [assignment\_name](#input\_assignment\_name)

Description: (Optional) The name of the `configurationAssignments` child resource created under the gateway. Defaults to the maintenance configuration `name`.

Type: `string`

Default: `null`

### <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags)

Description: (Optional) Tags applied to the maintenance configuration.

Type: `map(string)`

Default: `null`

## Outputs

The following outputs are exported:

### <a name="output_assignment_resource_id"></a> [assignment\_resource\_id](#output\_assignment\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the `configurationAssignments` child resource that binds the maintenance configuration to the virtual network gateway.

### <a name="output_name"></a> [name](#output\_name)

Description: The name of the maintenance configuration.

### <a name="output_resource"></a> [resource](#output\_resource)

Description: The full AzAPI resource object for the maintenance configuration.

### <a name="output_resource_id"></a> [resource\_id](#output\_resource\_id)

Description: The resource ID of the maintenance configuration.

## Modules

No modules.

<!-- markdownlint-disable-next-line MD041 -->
## Data Collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft’s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704>. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
<!-- END_TF_DOCS -->